# Data Generator

This folder contains the code for the data generator.

> NOTE: Even though the files are .py, they cannot be run with a standard python interpretor. They need to be uploaded and run in a Databricks environment.

## Ranges

The ranges for the syntheric data fall under the following categories:

1. **Files found or generated online.** This applies to the Names of employees, and companies, as well as the names of regions and other localities.
1. **Randomly generated dates and/or numbers and flags.** This includes all dates in the data, flags indicating delition or types of employment as well as all types that have a number as a level.
1. **IDs.** All IDs in the dataset have been generated by starting at 1111 and increasing by 1 until the desired number of entries was created.
1. **Values selected by other entities.** As soon as an entity was created the data in it were stored in a delta table and available for other entities to use. Multiple values could be used from one entity in another. This could include but not nesecerily the ID or other values.

## Process/Run sequence

Since entities use values from other that are being created in this code, the notebooks need to be run in a specific order. The steps bellow show the steps that need to be taken in order to generate the desired results:

1. Upload all files from the `ranges` folder in the metastore.
1. Run the notebooks in this folder int he following order   
   1. locality-structures   
   1. customers   
   1. employees   
   1. employeeScedules   
   1. Shifts   
   > NOTE: if any changes that affect the data are made in the earlier notebooks all subsequent notebooks need to be rerun to make sure the changes have been passed on.
